<h2>Using Redis like a pro</h2>

<p>Redis provides datastructures such as  strings, hashes, lists, sets, sorted sets with range queries, bitmaps, hyperloglogs, geospatial indexes, and streams. Atomic operations on these types are allowed, like appending to a string; incrementing the value in a hash; pushing an element to a list; computing set intersection, union and difference; or getting the member with highest ranking in a sorted set.</p>

<h2>SET</h2>
<h3>SET key value [EX seconds|PX milliseconds|KEEPTTL] [NX|XX] [GET]</h3>
<p>Set key to hold the string value. If key already holds a value, it is overwritten, regardless of its type. Any previous time to live associated with the key is discarded on successful SET operation.</p>

<p>For this demonstration, the value <i>"John Doe"</i> is mapped to the key, <i>name</i></p>
<pre>
<code>
redis> SET name "John Doe"
OK
</code></pre>

<p>The value mapped to the key, <i>name</i> can be accessed using GET</p>
<pre><code>
redis> GET name
"John Doe"
</code></pre>

<h3>Options</h3>
The SET command supports a set of options that modify its behavior:

<h4>EX seconds -- Set the specified expire time, in seconds.</h4>
<p>EX can be used to set the time period (in seconds) for which, the key & value persists</p>

<pre><code>redis> SET name "Jim Doe" EX 10</code></pre>

<p>If value is attempted to be retreived within 10 seconds, it is a success</p>
<pre><code>
redis> GET name
"Jim Doe"
</code></pre>
<p>But after 10 seconds, the attempt fails as the value ceases to exist.</p>
<pre><code>
redis> GET name
(nil)
</code></pre>

<h4>PX milliseconds -- Set the specified expire time, in millisecond</h4>
<p>The option PX works simila to EX, but instead of seconds, milli-seconds is used as a metric for time</p>

<h4>NX -- Only set the key if it does not already exist</h4>
<p>Option NX only sets the Key if a value isn't already mapped to it. In this demonstration, note that a value for key, name has been set to Lee Doe.</p>
<pre><code>
redis> SET name "Lee Doe"
OK
GET name
"Lee Doe"
</code></pre>
<p>When an attempt is made to SET a value forthe key with option NX, it fails</p>
<pre><code>
SET name "John Doe"
(nil)
</code></pre>

<h4>XX -- Only set the key if it already exist</h4>
<p>Option XX only sets the Key, if a value is already mapped to it. As a demonstration, a an attempt has been made to Set a value to a key which doesn't exist and as specified, it fails</p>
<pre><code>
redis> SET age 100 XX
(nil)
</code></pre>

<h4>KEEPTTL -- Retain the time to live associated with the key</h4>
<p>This option allows the Key to retain the expiry time, even after a new Value has been Set</p>

